[Excel] (ui) user customization of keyboard shortcuts (#2910)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/design/keyboard-shortcuts.md

- Ctrl+W
- Ctrl+PgUp/PgDn

## Enable end users to customize the keyboard shortcuts for your add-in (preview)

Your add-in can enable users to reassign the actions of the add-in to alternate keyboard combinations.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The features described in this section are currently in preview and subject to change. They are not currently supported for use in production environments. To try the preview features, you will need to [join Office Insider](https://insider.office.com/join).
> A good way to try out preview features is by using a Microsoft 365 subscription. If you don't already have a Microsoft 365 subscription, you can get one by joining the [Microsoft 365 developer program](https://developer.microsoft.com/office/dev-program).

> [!NOTE]
> The APIs described in this section require the [KeyboardShortcuts 1.1](../reference/requirement-sets/keyboard-shortcuts-requirement-sets.md) requirement set.

> To enable a user to customize the keyboard shortcuts, your add-in will need to provide a UI in which the user can assign new key combinations to the add-in's actions. The UI should present the user with the available actions and, for each, provide an input method, such as a text box, for the user to enter a key combination string. The UI should validate that the strings are the proper form. For example, there can be no spaces and keys must be separated by the "+" symbol. If the user is logged into Office, the custom combinations are saved in the user's roaming settings. If the user is not logged in, the customizations last only for the current session of the add-in.

Author: > Too many commas and broken phrases make it difficult for translation.

```suggestion
To enable a user to customize the keyboard shortcuts, your add-in needs to provide a UI in which the user can assign new key combinations to the add-in's actions. The UI should present the user with the available actions and provide an input method, such as a text box, for the user to enter a key combination string for each action. The UI should validate that the strings are properly formatted. For example, there can be no spaces and keys must be separated by the "+" symbol. If the user is logged into Office, the custom combinations are saved in the user's roaming settings. If the user is not logged in, the customizations last only for the current session of the add-in.
```

> To enable a user to customize the keyboard shortcuts, your add-in will need to provide a UI in which the user can assign new key combinations to the add-in's actions. The UI should present the user with the available actions and, for each, provide an input method, such as a text box, for the user to enter a key combination string. The UI should validate that the strings are the proper form. For example, there can be no spaces and keys must be separated by the "+" symbol. If the user is logged into Office, the custom combinations are saved in the user's roaming settings. If the user is not logged in, the customizations last only for the current session of the add-in.

Reviewer: Can we remove this section or move it to the bottom of the documentation as 'best practice'? In reality, the add-in doesn't need to provide a UI. It can customize shortcuts for a user based on several factors such as the user's role or authentication information, location, team, etc. 

We also repeat some of the same requirements here as we already have listed earlier in the documentation. For e.g. do we need to specify that "there can be no spaces and keys must be separated by the "+" symbol"? This is already included in the "Details and restriction" section earlier in the document?

> Use the [Office.actions.replaceShortcuts](/javascript/api/office/office.actions#replaceShortcuts) method to assign a user's custom keyboard combinations to your add-ins actions. The method takes a parameter of type `{[actionId:string]: string}`, where the `actionId`s are a subset of the action IDs that are defined in the add-in's extended manifest JSON. The values are the user's preferred key combinations. The following is an example in which some hypothetical custom key combinations are hardcoded. In an actual add-in, you create a function that gets them from the UI.

Reviewer: We should also remove the 'In an actual add-in, you create a function that gets them from the UI' because there could be several sources that these are fetched from in a real add-in scenario.

```javascript
const userCustomShortcuts = {
    SHOWTASKPANE:"CTRL+SHIFT+1", 
    HIDETASKPANE:"CTRL+SHIFT+2"
};
Office.actions.replaceShortcuts(userCustomShortcuts)
    .then(function () {
        console.log("Successfully registered.");
    })
    .catch(function (ex) {

>         if (ex.code == "ActionNotFound") {

Reviewer: We did not end up creating these specific errors for the shortcuts API. We return "InvalidOperation" for both of these cases. For eg. if (ex.code == "Invalid Operation")

            console.log("ActionId does not exist.");
        } else if (ex.code == "InvalidShortcut") {
            console.log("Shortcut combination is invalid.");
        }
    });
```

> To populate a UI that specifies the add-in's shortcuts that the user can customize, call the [Office.actions.getShortcuts](/javascript/api/office/office.actions#getShortcuts) method. This method returns an object of type `[actionId:string]:string|null}`, where the `actionId`s are (1) all of the action IDs that are defined in the add-in's extended manifest JSON and (2) all the customized shortcuts registered for the user in the user's roaming settings. The values are the key combinations currently assigned to the actions. The following is an example.

Reviewer: Can we create a list here of the shortcuts that are returned with this API rather than listing them within the paragraph? For eg:
"The actionId shortcut pair returned by this method includes:
1. All of the actions that are defined in the add-in's extended manifest JSON AND
2. All of the customized actions registered for the user in the user's roaming settings
"

```javascript
Office.actions.getShortcuts()
    .then(function (userShortcuts) {
       for (const action in userShortcuts) {
           let shortcut = userShortcuts[action];
           // In a real add-in you would typically present this information in the UI.
           console.log(action + ": " + shortcut);
       }
    });

```

> As described in [Avoid key combinations in use by other add-ins](#avoid-key-combinations-in-use-by-other-add-ins), the first time a user enters a key combination that is registered to multiple actions, the user is prompted to choose which action will be associated with the combination. This can be a dilemma for a user that wants more than one of the actions to have a shortcut. You can't prevent this from happening when the conflict is between your add-in and another add-in, but you can at least prevent conflicts between the *user's customization of one of your add-in's shortcuts* and a shortcut registered by an add-in or the host Office application. To prevent a conflict, you need to warn the user about it and give them the chance to change their custom key combination.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As described in [Avoid key combinations in use by other add-ins](#avoid-key-combinations-in-use-by-other-add-ins), the first time a user enters a key combination that is registered to multiple actions, they are prompted to choose which action will be associated with the combination. This can be a dilemma for a user that wants more than one of the actions to have a shortcut. You can't prevent this from happening when the conflict is between your add-in and another add-in, but you can at least prevent conflicts between the *user's customization of one of your add-in's shortcuts* and a shortcut registered by an add-in or the host Office application. To prevent a conflict, you need to warn the user about it and give them the chance to change their custom key combination.
```

> As described in [Avoid key combinations in use by other add-ins](#avoid-key-combinations-in-use-by-other-add-ins), the first time a user enters a key combination that is registered to multiple actions, the user is prompted to choose which action will be associated with the combination. This can be a dilemma for a user that wants more than one of the actions to have a shortcut. You can't prevent this from happening when the conflict is between your add-in and another add-in, but you can at least prevent conflicts between the *user's customization of one of your add-in's shortcuts* and a shortcut registered by an add-in or the host Office application. To prevent a conflict, you need to warn the user about it and give them the chance to change their custom key combination.

Reviewer: I think in general this section is very text heavy. I think there's a chance to simplify this. Instead of adding this section, can we simply include the areShortcutsInUse API as part of the 'Avoid key combinations in use by other add-ins' section? Instead of suggesting hypothetical scenarios, can we simply state that the developer can "use the following API to determine which shortcut combinations are already in use.."?

> To do this pass the user's custom key combinations, as an array of strings, to the [Office.actions.areShortcutsInUse](/javascript/api/office/office.actions#areShortcutsInUse) method. The method will return a report of which combinations are already in use in the form of an array of objects of type `{shortcut: string, inUse: boolean}`. The `shortcut` property is a key combination, such as "CTRL+SHIFT+1", and the `inUse` property is set to `true` if the combination is already registered to another action. For example, `[{shortcut: "CTRL+SHIFT+1", inUse: true}, {shortcut: "CTRL+SHIFT+2", inUse: false}]`. The following is an example in which some hypothetical user's custom key combinations are hardcoded. In an actual add-in, you programmatically get this information from the UI where the user has entered custom key combinations. Also, instead of just logging the results to the console, you would typically report the results to the UI and give the user a way to change key combinations that are already in use.

Reviewer: We should also remove the reference to this "UI". Add-ins are not required to provide a UI but can do so if they want to.

- Ctrl+W
- Ctrl+PgUp/PgDn

> ## Enable custom the keyboard shortcuts for specific users (preview)

Reviewer: "Enable custom keyboard shortcuts"? I think there's an extra 'the' in there.

        console.log("Successfully registered.");
    })
    .catch(function (ex) {
        if (ex.code == "InvalidOperation") {
            console.log("ActionId does not exist or shortcut combination is invalid.");
        }
    });
```

To find out what shortcuts are already in use for the user, call the [Office.actions.getShortcuts](/javascript/api/office/office.actions#getShortcuts) method. This method returns an object of type `[actionId:string]:string|null}`, where the `actionId`s are:

- All of the action IDs that are defined in the add-in's extended manifest JSON.
- All the customized shortcuts registered for the user in the user's roaming settings. The values are the key combinations currently assigned to the actions. 

The following is an example.

```javascript
Office.actions.getShortcuts()
    .then(function (userShortcuts) {
       for (const action in userShortcuts) {
           let shortcut = userShortcuts[action];
           console.log(action + ": " + shortcut);
       }
    });

```

> To discover if one or more key combinations are already in use pass them as an array of strings to the [Office.actions.areShortcutsInUse](/javascript/api/office/office.actions#areShortcutsInUse) method. The method returns a report containing key combinations that are already in use in the form of an array of objects of type `{shortcut: string, inUse: boolean}`. The `shortcut` property is a key combination, such as "CTRL+SHIFT+1". If the combination is already registered to another action, the `inUse` property is set to `true`. For example, `[{shortcut: "CTRL+SHIFT+1", inUse: true}, {shortcut: "CTRL+SHIFT+2", inUse: false}]`. The following code snippet is an example:

Reviewer: Would be great to somehow link this to the "Avoid key combinations..." section. Maybe just a sentence about using this API to avoid conflicts with built in Excel shortcuts?
